---
layout: post
tag: covid-19, tourist guides, Paris, pandemic impact, tourism crises
---
[Dowload PDF](https://www.dropbox.com/s/loubt93edgn1hbl/Impact-covid-tourist-guides-paris.pdf?dl=0)

**Abstract** 

The primary purpose of this research is to investigate the impact of COVID-19 on tourist guides based in Paris. 
A mix of method research was adopted, including the analysis of secondary data (two surveys released by FNGIC in 2020 and 2021; 
and literature reviews on tourist guides) and in-depth interviews with key guides holding the professional card at the end of 
the data collection period. Key findings indicate that many licensed guides continuing their jobs after the COVID-19 have 
the strongest motivation due to their passion for art, culture and history rather than the income of the profession. 
Those working under the auto-entrepreneur status are the least vulnerable because they are eligible to have access to 
the Solidarity Fund during the pandemic. The rest of the guides are left behind the support and concern from the government. 
In many cases, tourist guides implemented various cost cutting measures and personal savings and loans to overcome the depletion 
of income in the COVID-19. However, due to the dropout of many guides, there was a serious shortage that resulted in 
higher paid for guides by travel agencies. Other guides also temporarily engage in alternative employment to secure an income. 
Meanwhile, the changes in booking behaviour of visitors at last minutes and in museum’s regulation also was reflected by 
tourist guides in the research. This study uncovers the support measures mainly in terms of finance; in addition to some 
minor initiatives employed from FNGIC to enable guides to approach digitalization. This also implies the lack of preliminary preparation 
for the development of this profession in the long-term and become a part of the tourism recovery trajectory. Further research on 
tourist guides in Paris or generally in France needs to be carried out, to fully understand the various aspects of this profession 
in the country so that a death warrant for tourist guides can be avoided.

[Dowload PDF Methodology](https://www.dropbox.com/s/wr7rg0k91d696kl/Methodological%20Tools%28master%29.pdf?dl=0)
